Title: Spooky Actions of an Atom!!! Entanglement?
Date: 2019-01-07 8:00
Category: Blog

Quantum physics is radically different to the world as Newton’s laws described it, both conceptually and mathematically. Einstein very uneasy with the theory he helped found, leading him to believe that it was incomplete. This phenomena is Entanglement or spooky action of an atom.
Entanglement is a physical phenomenon which occurs when pairs or groups of particles are generate, interact, or share spatial proximity.
Measurements of physical properties such as
position,
momentum,
spin,
and polarization
The particles at the time of measurement may be separated by arbitrarily large distances.
It appears that one particle of an entangled pair “knows” what measurement has been performed on the other. Even though there is no known means for such information to be communicated between the particles.
But Entanglement had some issues
Imagine you have 2 identical bags. You put red color ball in one bag and blue color ball in the other. Now , its impossible to tell which bag contains blue ball and which one contains red ball. You randomly select a bag and sent it on moon.
Now when you will open the bag which is with you you will immediately know which color ball is in the the other bag. But this seemed to violate the speed limit on the transmission of information implicit in the theory of relativity.
But this seemed to violate the speed limit on the transmission of information implicit in the theory of relativity.
Special relativity made the case for locality even stronger, as it introduced the cosmic speed limit, the speed of light. Nothing can propagate faster than light, be it a particle or information about someone measuring your entangled partner photon. Einstein did not like non-locality in physics, and dubbed this effect as “spooky action at a distance”.
In 1935 Einstein, Boris Podolsky and Nathan Rosen published paper,“Can Quantum-Mechanical Description of Physical Reality Be Considered Complete?”. According it, Entanglement can not cause a measurement on one particle to affect another further away. Instead, particles actually have well determined positions, velocities…
However, wave function, and hidden variables gives an
incomplete description of the reality.
But it again poses some questions -
“Was quantum mechanics an incomplete description of reality?”
However, in 1964 John Bell published a paper titled “On the Einstein Podolosky Rosen Paradox” . He examined the consequences of hidden variable theories, as they had become known.
His work found that such a theory could not be constructed and still give predictions consistent with quantum mechanics. In fact, he found out that hidden variable theories would even be in contradiction with special relativity.
Since then, experiments have been in agreement with both the predictions of Bell’s work and those of quantum mechanics. Among those predictions is quantum entanglement, most important resource of the rising fields of quantum information and computing.